This dialog is used to specify an ANOVA model for study in a
power analysis.  Once you fill-in the fields, clicking on
one of the buttons at the bottom generates a graphical
interface (GUI) based on the model you specify.

The "Differences/Contrasts" buttons generates a GUI designed
for studying the powers of comparisons or contrasts among
the levels of fixed factors, or combinations thereof.  This
is probably what you want for most sample-size planning.

The "F tests" button creates a GUI for studying the powers
of the F tests in the ANOVA table.  This is most useful when
you want to study the powers of tests of random effects.

There are several built-in models; you may find what you
want among them.  These also serve as examples of how to
specify models.

"Model" is the only field that is required; there are
defaults for the rest.

Title
    This will be displayed on the title bar of the GUI.

Model
    The terms in this model define the dialog. Separate the
    terms using "+" signs.  Use "*" for interactions, e.g.,
    "A*B".  Use "()", e.g., "Subj(Treat)".  A "|" generates
    all main effects and interactions, e.g., "A|B|C" is the
    same as "A + B + A*B + C + A*C + B*C + A*B*C".

Levels
    You can set the starting number of levels for any
    factors in the model.  (Since the levels can be
    manipulated in the GUI, it is not mandatory to specify
    them here.  The default for any factor is 2 levels.
    Specify levels in the form "name levels  name levels
    ...", e.g., "A 2  B 3".

    Two special provisions exist:
    (1) Locking levels:  A specification like "A=B 3" sets A
        and B to always have the same number of levels,
        starting at 3.
    (2) Fractional designs:  If the name of a factor is
        preceded by "/", then the total number of
        observations in the experiment is divided by the
        number of levels of that factor.  For example, "row=
        col=/treat 5" specifies a 5x5 Latin square.

Random factors
    Any factors listed here are taken to have random levels.
    Give their names, separated by spaces.  These settings
    can be altered later in the F-test GUI, but NOT in the
    differences/contrasts GUI.

Replicated
    If this box is checked, then a "within-cell error" term
    is added to the model, and an additional window appears
    to specify the starting number of replications.

    If the box is NOT checked, then the design is taken to
    be unreplicated, and a "residual" term will be added to
    the model.  If the model is saturated, nothing can be
    tested unless one or more of the factors is random.

    Finally, if there are replications but the model is not
    saturated, the GUI assumes a residual term that pools
    the within-cell error with the unspecified terms.

