Cohen's effect sizes
--------------------

Jacob Cohen has proposed effect-size measures for several
statistical procedures, and has defined "small,"
"medium," and "large" effect sizes accordingly.  These
effect-size measures are standardized quantities, e.g. an
absolute difference of means divided by the standard
deviation.  They are quite popularly used in sample-size
problems, because they are so easy to use; you don't have
to think very hard to get an answer.

And that's the rub. You don't have to think nearly enough!
Planning a study always requires careful thought: what
is the goal, how do we operationalize the research question,
what do we measure and how, what study design is needed,
what result would be of scientific importance, etc.
None of those issues are addressed in specifying small, 
medium, or large on a standardized scale.  If you really
care about the scientific merits of your work, then you
should not take this easy route.  And I certainly will not
help you do it using my software.

Suppose that a study involves measuring the thickness
of fibers.  There are various instruments that 
could be used to do that.  It makes sense that if an
inaccurate instrument is used, you should have more
observations in the experiment than if you use really
accurate measurements.  However, using, say, a "medium"
effect size in the planning, you get the SAME sample size
regardless of whether you use a micrometer, caliper,
or 6-inch plastic ruler.  

That's because Cohen's measures are standardized.  Using
a micrometer, a medium effect is perhaps a thousandth of
an inch in absolute terms; whereas, using a ruler, a
medium effect is perhaps an eighth of an inch. If a .01-
inch difference in mean fiber thicknesses is considered
to be important, then the plastic-ruler study is useless,
while the micrometer study is over-powered and could be
done adequately with fewer data.

To do a responsible job of planning the study, you need
to decide (1) what effect size, in ABSOLUTE units (e.g.,
inches in the above example), is of importance from a
scientific point of view; and (2) how variable are the
measurements (e.g., accuracy of instrumentation).
Typically, these are both hard questions. Question (1)
requires a lot of thought and discussion. Question (2)
requires some experience with similar measurements,
and/or a pilot study.

It is certainly a lot easier to talk about the ratio of
(1) and (2), as Cohen does, rather than the two
quantities separately.  But it is not good science.

For more discussion, see my article in a refereed
publication of the American Statistical Association:

Lenth, R.V. (2001), "Some Practical Considerations for
Effective Sample Size Determination," The American
Statistician, 55, 187-193.
