This dialog provides for power analysis of a two-sample t
test or a two-sample t test of equivalence.  If the "equal
SDs" box is checked, then the pooled t test is used;
otherwise, the calculations are based on the Satterthwaite
approximation.

You have three choices for sample-size allocation.
"Independent" lets you specify n1 and n2 separately;
"Equal" forces n1 = n2; and "Optimal" sets the ratio
n1/n2 equal to sigma1/sigma2 (which minimizes the
SE of the difference of the sample means).

You have a choice between using power or ROC area as the
criterion for deciding sample size (see the section below
on ROC area for additional explanation).

You may choose whether to solve for effect size or
sample size when you click on the "Power" (or "ROC
area") slider.  The current values are scaled upward or
downward to make the power come out right, while
preserving (at least approximately) the ratio of the
two SDs or two ns.

To study a test of equivalence, check the "Equivalence"
checkbox.  A "Threshold" window will appear for entering
the negligible difference of means.  An equivalence test
is a test of the hypotheses H0: |mu1 - mu2| >= threshold
versus H1: |mu1 - mu2| < threshold.  The test is done by
performing two one-sided t tests:

    H01: mu1 - mu2 <= -threshold  vs. H11: > -threshold
    H02: mu1 - mu2 >= threshold   vs. H12: < threshold

Then H0 is rejected only if both H01 and H02 are rejected.
If both tests are of size alpha, then the size of the
two tests together is at most alpha -- that's because
H01 and H02 are disjoint.  Another way to look at this
test is to construct a 100(1 - 2*alpha) percent CI for
(mu1 - mu), and reject H0 if this interval lies entirely
inside the interval [-threshold, +threshold].

Options menu
"Use integrated power" is an experimental enhancement.
Consider the plot of power versus alpha; integrated power
is the area under that curve.  (This curve is also known as
the ROC - receiver operating characteristic - curve.)  The
integrated power, or area under the ROC curve, is the
average power over all possible values of alpha
(therefore, it does not depend on alpha).

Integrated power has the following useful interpretation:
Consider two hypothetical studies of identical size and
design.  Suppose that in one of them, there is no
difference between the means, and in the other, the
difference is the value specified in the dialog.  We
compute the t statistic in each study.  Then the
integrated power is the probability that the t statistic
for the second (non-null) study is "more significant" than
the one from the null study.  That is, it is the chance
that we will correctly distinguish the null and non-null
studies. The lowest possible integrated power is .5 except
in unreasonable situations (such as using a right-tailed
test when the difference is negative).

An advantage of using integrated power instead of power is
that it doesn't require you to specify the value of alpha
(so the "alpha" widget disappears when you select the
integrated power method). Also, it is somewhat removed
from the trappings of hypothesis testing, in that in the
above description, the t statistic is only used as a
measure of effect size, not as a decision rule.  This may
make it more palatable to some people (please tell me what
you think!)  A suggested target integrated power is 0.95 -
roughly comparable to a power of .80 at alpha = .05.

The above description of integrated power is for a regular
t test, as opposed to an equivalence test.  In an
equivalence test, the analogous definition and
interpretation applies, but in cases where the threshold
is too small relative to sigma1 and sigma2, the power
function is severely bounded and this can make the
integrated power less than .5.
