Help for Piface dialogs

Overview
-----------
The dialog you are running is built using the
Java class Piface.  Piface provides methods for
creating effective user interfaces with minimal
effort.  For more information, contact Russell V.
Lenth, Department of Statistics, University of
Iowa; russell-lenth@stat.uiowa.edu

Graphical-user-interface (GUI) components
-----------------------------------------
*** Sliders
If a slider is enabled (the slider part looks
like a button), the value may be changed by
clicking on any position on the center line of
the scale; or you may drag the slider button to a
new position.

Sliders are actually convertible to keyboard-
input fields. You can toggle back and forth
between slider mode and keyboard mode by clicking
on the small button to the upper right. A value
entered in the window is accepted when you click
on "OK" or press the "Enter" key.

The numerical scale for a slider may be altered
by dragging the mouse pointer along the scale,
some distance below the center line.  The cursor
changes into a "resize" cursor when you do this.
Basically, the idea is to drag a tick mark to a
new position; but there are limitations to
prevent extreme changes.  Also, the slider may
have been set up with such dragging actions
disabled at one or both ends.

The scale endpoints, as well as the number of
digits accuracy displayed, may also be set by
going into keyboard mode and selecting from the
drop-down list.  Selecting "Min" or "Max" sets an
endpoint that can be changed by mouse dragging,
as described above; selecting "Min!" or "Max!"
disables the ability to change that endpoint with
the mouse.

*** Checkboxes, radio buttons, input windows, etc.
These GUI elements work just the way you expect.


Options menu
------------
The options menu varies depending on the appli-
cation, but most will provide at least the "Graphics"
option.  If this is selected, you will get a client
dialog that "plays" the user interface for specified
parameter values and graphs the results.
